TESTING.md, before:

# DC/OS SDK framework testing tools

## Static checking

In order to minimize errors in the system integration tests, static checks and code analysis tools are used on testing and utility code not explicitly exercised by unit tests. In order to make this process as simple and uniform as possible, the repo contains a number of helper scripts to run these tools. These same scripts are used by the build system to check the changes to the source code.

*Note*: These checks are only run against **modified** files relative to the target Git branch.

### Python files

In order to run the checks against *modified* Python files, run the following from the root of the repository:
```bash
./tools/ci/steps/check_python_files.sh
```

### Using pre-commit

The repository also contains a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` to be used with (`pre-commit`)[https://pre-commit.com/]. Once `pre-commit` is installed, the hooks can be added using
```bash
pre-commit install
```
in the project root.

## System integration tests

The `test.sh` script works with the `mesosphere/dcos-commons` Docker image to set up a reproducible test environment for testing any DC/OS SDK-based frameworks such as [dcos-commons](https://github.com/mesosphere/dcos-commons). In order to pull the testing utilities into a target framework, say `my-framework` in the current working folder, run:
```bash
docker run --rm -ti -v $(pwd):$(pwd) mesosphere/dcos-commons:latest init $(pwd)
```
This copies the files:
- `TESTING.md` (this document)
- `test.sh`
to the current working directory.

*Note:* If these files exist in the `$(pwd)` folder, they will be overwritten.

### Running tests
With the testing utilities in place, the tests for the framework(s) in the current folder can be run using:

```bash
CLUSTER_URL=$(dcos config show core.dcos_url) ./test.sh
```
This automatically detects the frameworks in the current folder and for each frameworks builds the framework and runs the integration tests.

*Note:* That this assumes that the DC/OS CLI has already been associated with a DC/OS cluster using the `dcos cluster setup` or `dcos cluster attach` commands.

#### Detection of frameworks
As mentioned above, the `test.sh` script detects all the frameworks in the current folder. This is done with the following precednce:

* If a `frameworks` folder exists

The subfolders of the `frameworks` folder are considered frameworks. For example in the case of the `dcos-commons` repository:
```bash
tree --dirsfirst -L 1 frameworks
frameworks
├── cassandra
├── elastic
├── hdfs
├── helloworld
└── kafka

6 directories, 0 files
```
The detected frameworks would be:
- `cassandra`
- `elastic`
- `hdfs`
- `helloworld`
- `kafka`

* If no `frameworks` folder exists

If no `frameworks` folder exists, the current folder is assumed to be the root of a single framework. Note that the name of the framework displayed in this case (and above) is purely cosmetic, and the package name for the framework is determined from the catalog definition files.

#### Advanced usage
Running
```bash
./test.sh --help
```
Will show all the options that are available for the `test.sh` script.

Commit message:

Enable black formatting checks in code checks (#2597)
* Adds black formatting checks (and adds the relevant flake8 config)
* Moves the checks to pre-commit instead of running these in individual docker steps for better portability.

TESTING.md, after:

# DC/OS SDK framework testing tools

## Static checking

In order to minimize errors in the system integration tests, static checks and code analysis tools are used on testing and utility code not explicitly exercised by unit tests. In order to make this process as simple and uniform as possible, the repo contains a number of helper scripts to run these tools. These same scripts are used by the build system to check the changes to the source code.

*Note*: These checks are only run against **modified** files relative to the target Git branch.

### Using pre-commit

The repository also contains a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` to be used with (`pre-commit`)[https://pre-commit.com/]. Once `pre-commit` is installed, the hooks can be added using
```bash
pre-commit install
```
in the project root.

### Python files

In order to run the checks against *modified* Python files, run the following from the root of the repository:
```bash
./tools/ci/steps/check_python_files.sh
```

The project uses (`black`)[https://github.com/ambv/black] formatting, and this is included in the `pre-commit` configuration. In order to format staged files run:
```bash
pre-commit run black-format
```

*Note*: This assumes that you have `pre-commit` installed.

## System integration tests

The `test.sh` script works with the `mesosphere/dcos-commons` Docker image to set up a reproducible test environment for testing any DC/OS SDK-based frameworks such as [dcos-commons](https://github.com/mesosphere/dcos-commons). In order to pull the testing utilities into a target framework, say `my-framework` in the current working folder, run:
```bash
docker run --rm -ti -v $(pwd):$(pwd) mesosphere/dcos-commons:latest init $(pwd)
```
This copies the files:
- `TESTING.md` (this document)
- `test.sh`
to the current working directory.

*Note:* If these files exist in the `$(pwd)` folder, they will be overwritten.

### Running tests
With the testing utilities in place, the tests for the framework(s) in the current folder can be run using:

```bash
CLUSTER_URL=$(dcos config show core.dcos_url) ./test.sh
```
This automatically detects the frameworks in the current folder and for each frameworks builds the framework and runs the integration tests.

*Note:* That this assumes that the DC/OS CLI has already been associated with a DC/OS cluster using the `dcos cluster setup` or `dcos cluster attach` commands.

#### Detection of frameworks
As mentioned above, the `test.sh` script detects all the frameworks in the current folder. This is done with the following precednce:

* If a `frameworks` folder exists

The subfolders of the `frameworks` folder are considered frameworks. For example in the case of the `dcos-commons` repository:
```bash
tree --dirsfirst -L 1 frameworks
frameworks
├── cassandra
├── elastic
├── hdfs
├── helloworld
└── kafka

6 directories, 0 files
```
The detected frameworks would be:
- `cassandra`
- `elastic`
- `hdfs`
- `helloworld`
- `kafka`

* If no `frameworks` folder exists

If no `frameworks` folder exists, the current folder is assumed to be the root of a single framework. Note that the name of the framework displayed in this case (and above) is purely cosmetic, and the package name for the framework is determined from the catalog definition files.

#### Advanced usage
Running
```bash
./test.sh --help
```
Will show all the options that are available for the `test.sh` script.
