frameworks/kafka/docs/security.md, before:

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:
excerpt:
title: Kerberos
menuWeight: 22

---

# DC/OS Apache Kafka Security

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service supports Kafka's native transport encryption, authentication, and authorization mechanisms. The service provides automation and orchestration to simplify the usage of these important features.

A good overview of these features can be found [here](https://www.confluent.io/blog/apache-kafka-security-authorization-authentication-encryption/), and Kafka's security documentation can be found [here](http://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#security).

*Note*: These security features are only available on DC/OS Enterprise.

## Transport Encryption

With transport encryption enabled, DC/OS Apache Kafka will automatically deploy all brokers with the correct configuration to communicate via SSL. The Brokers will communicate securely between themselves using SSl. Optionally, plaintext communication can be left open to clients.

The service uses the [DC/OS CA](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/security/ent/tls-ssl/) to generate the TLS artifacts that it uses to secure the service. Any client that trusts the DC/OS CA will consider the service's certificates valid.

*Note*: Enabling transport encryption is _required_ to use [SSL Auth](#ssl-auth) for [authentication](#authentication) (authn), but is optional for [Kerberos authn](#kerberos-authn).

### Prerequisites
- [A DC/OS Service Account with a secret stored in the DC/OS Secret Store](https://docs.mesosphere.com/latest/security/ent/service-auth/custom-service-auth/).
- DC/OS Superuser permissions for modifying the permissions of the Service Account.

### Configure Transport Encryption

#### Setup the Service Account

Grant the service account the correct permissions.
- In DC/OS 1.10, the required permission is `dcos:superuser full`.
- In DC/OS 1.11+ the required permissions are:
```
dcos:secrets:default:/<service-name>/* full
dcos:secrets:default:/<service-name> list
```
where `<service-name>` is the name of the service to be installed.

#### Install the service
Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service including the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "service_account": "<your service account name>",
        "service_account_secret": "<full path of secret>",
        "security": {
            "transport_encryption": {
                "enabled": true,
                "allow_plaintext": <true|false default false>
            }
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: It is possible to update a running DC/OS Apache Kafka service to enable transport encryption after initial installation, but the service may be unavilable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.

#### Verify Transport Encryption Enabled

After service deployment completes, check the list of Kafka endpoints for the endpoint `broker-tls`. If `service.security.transport_encryption.allow_plaintext` is `true`, then the `broker` endpoint will also be available.

## Authentication

DC/OS Apache Kafka supports two authentication (authn) mechanisms, SSL Auth and Kerberos. The two are supported indpendently but may not be layered. If both are selected, the service will use Kerberos.

### Kerberos Authn

Kerberos authentication relies on a central authority to verify that a Kafka client (be it broker, consumer, or producer) are who they say they are. DC/OS Apache Kafka integrates with your existing Kerberos infrastructure to provide identity so that Kafka's authorization (authz) features may be used.

#### Prerequisites
- The hostname and port of a KDC visible to the DC/OS cluster
- Sufficient access to the KDC to create kerberos principals
- Sufficient access to the KDC to retrieve a keytab for the generated principals
- [The DC/OS Enterprise CLI](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/cli/enterprise-cli/#installing-the-dcos-enterprise-cli)
- DC/OS Superuser permissions

#### Configure Kerberos Authentication

#### Create principals

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service requires a Kerberos principal for each broker to be deployed. Each principal must be of the form
```
<service-primary>/kafka-Y-broker.<service-subdomain>.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@<service-realm>
```
with:
- service-primary = service.security.kerberos.primary
- Y = 0 up to kafka.brokers.count - 1
- service-subdomain = service.name with all `/`'s removed
- service-realm = service.security.kerberos.realm

For example, if installing with these options:
```
{
    "service": {
        "name": "a/good/example",
        "kerberos": {
            "primary": "example",
            "realm": "EXAMPLE"
        }
    },
    "kafka": {
        "brokers": {
            "count": 3
        }
    }
}
```
then the principals to create would be:
```
example/kafka-0-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
example/kafka-1-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
example/kafka-2-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
```

#### Place Service Keytab in DC/OS Secret Store

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service uses a keytab containing all broker principals (service keytab) to simplify orchestration. After creating the principals above, generate the service keytab making sure to include all the broker principals. This will be stored as a secret in the DC/OS Secret Store.

*Note*: DC/OS 1.10 does not support directly adding binary secrets to the secret store, only text files are supported. Instead, first base64 encode the file, and save it to the secret store as `/desired/path/__base_64__secret_name`. The DC/OS security modules will handle decoding the file when it is used by the service. More details [here](https://docs.mesosphere.com/services/ops-guide/overview/#binary-secrets).

The service keytab should be stored at `service/path/service.keytab` (as noted above for 1.10, it would be `__base_64__service.keytab`), where `service/path` matches the path of the service. For example, if installing with the options
```
{
    "service": {
        "name": "a/good/example"
    }
}
```
then the service keytab should be stored at `a/good/service.keytab`.

Documentation for adding a file to the secret store can be found [here](https://docs.mesosphere.com/latest/security/ent/secrets/create-secrets/#creating-secrets-from-a-file-via-the-dcos-enterprise-cli).

*Note*: Secrets access is controlled by [DC/OS Spaces](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/security/ent/#spaces-for-secrets). Technically, any secret path "above" that of the service will be accessible by the service. Matching the two paths is, however, the most secure option. Additionally `service.keytab` is a convention and not a requirement.


#### Install the service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service will the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "kerberos": {
            "enabled": true,
            "enabled_for_zookeeper": <true|false default false>
            "kdc": {
                "hostname": "<kdc host>",
                "port": <kdc port>
            },
            "primary": "<default kafka>",
            "realm": "<realm>",
            "keytab_secret": "<path to keytab>",
            "debug": <true|false default false>
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: If `service.kerberos.enabled_for_zookeeper` is set to true, then the additional setting
```
{
    "kafka": {
        "kafka_zookeeper_uri": <list of zookeeper hosts>
    }
}
```
`kafka.kafka_zookeeper_uri` must be configured to point at a Kerberized Apache ZooKeeper. The DC/OS Apache Zookeeper service is intended for this purpose and supports Kerberos.

*Note*: It is possible to enable Kerberos after initial installation but the service may be unavailable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.


### SSL Auth

SSL Auth requires that all clients be they brokers, producers, or consumers present a valid TLS Certificate from which their identity can be derived. DC/OS Apache Kafka uses the `CN` of the TLS certificate as the principal for a given client. For example, the certificate `CN=bob@example.com,OU=,O=Example,L=London,ST=London,C=GB` will be considered as the principal `bob@example.com`.

#### Prerequisites
- Competion of the section [Transport Encryption](#transport-encryption) above

#### Install the Service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service with the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "service_account": "<service-account>",
        "service_account_secret": "<secret path>"
        "security": {
            "transport_encryption": {
                "enabled": true
            },
            "ssl_authentication": {
                "enabled": true
            }
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: It is possible to enable SSL Auth after initial installation, but the service may be unavailable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.

## Authorization

The DC/OS Apache Kafka Service supports Kafka's ACL based authorization (authz) system. To use Kafka's authz, either SSL Auth or Kerberos must be enabled as detailed above.

### Enable Authorization

#### Prerequisites
- Completion of either [Recovery Plan](#ssl-auth) or [Kerberos](#kerberos-authn) above.

#### Install the Service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service with the following options alongside your own (remember, either SSL Auth or Kerberos _must_ be enabled):
```
{
    "service": {
        "security": {
            "authorization": {
                "enabled": true,
                "super_users": "<list of super users>",
                "allow_everyone_if_no_acl_found": <true|false default false>
            }
        }
    }
}
```

`service.security.authorization.super_users` should be set to a semi-colon delimited list of principals to treat as super users (all permissions). The format of the list is `User:<user1>;User:<user2>;...`. Using Kerberos authentication, the "user" value is the Kerberos primary, and for SSL Auth the "user" value is the `CN` of the certificate.

Commit message:

More details on SSL Auth

frameworks/kafka/docs/security.md, after:

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:
excerpt:
title: Kerberos
menuWeight: 22

---

# DC/OS Apache Kafka Security

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service supports Kafka's native transport encryption, authentication, and authorization mechanisms. The service provides automation and orchestration to simplify the usage of these important features.

A good overview of these features can be found [here](https://www.confluent.io/blog/apache-kafka-security-authorization-authentication-encryption/), and Kafka's security documentation can be found [here](http://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#security).

*Note*: These security features are only available on DC/OS Enterprise.

## Transport Encryption

With transport encryption enabled, DC/OS Apache Kafka will automatically deploy all brokers with the correct configuration to communicate via SSL. The Brokers will communicate securely between themselves using SSl. Optionally, plaintext communication can be left open to clients.

The service uses the [DC/OS CA](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/security/ent/tls-ssl/) to generate the TLS artifacts that it uses to secure the service. Any client that trusts the DC/OS CA will consider the service's certificates valid.

*Note*: Enabling transport encryption is _required_ to use [SSL Auth](#ssl-auth) for [authentication](#authentication) (authn), but is optional for [Kerberos authn](#kerberos-authn).

### Prerequisites
- [A DC/OS Service Account with a secret stored in the DC/OS Secret Store](https://docs.mesosphere.com/latest/security/ent/service-auth/custom-service-auth/).
- DC/OS Superuser permissions for modifying the permissions of the Service Account.

### Configure Transport Encryption

#### Setup the Service Account

Grant the service account the correct permissions.
- In DC/OS 1.10, the required permission is `dcos:superuser full`.
- In DC/OS 1.11+ the required permissions are:
```
dcos:secrets:default:/<service-name>/* full
dcos:secrets:default:/<service-name> list
```
where `<service-name>` is the name of the service to be installed.

#### Install the service
Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service including the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "service_account": "<your service account name>",
        "service_account_secret": "<full path of secret>",
        "security": {
            "transport_encryption": {
                "enabled": true,
                "allow_plaintext": <true|false default false>
            }
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: It is possible to update a running DC/OS Apache Kafka service to enable transport encryption after initial installation, but the service may be unavilable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.

#### Verify Transport Encryption Enabled

After service deployment completes, check the list of Kafka endpoints for the endpoint `broker-tls`. If `service.security.transport_encryption.allow_plaintext` is `true`, then the `broker` endpoint will also be available.

## Authentication

DC/OS Apache Kafka supports two authentication (authn) mechanisms, SSL Auth and Kerberos. The two are supported indpendently but may not be layered. If both are selected, the service will use Kerberos.

### Kerberos Authn

Kerberos authentication relies on a central authority to verify that a Kafka client (be it broker, consumer, or producer) are who they say they are. DC/OS Apache Kafka integrates with your existing Kerberos infrastructure to provide identity so that Kafka's authorization (authz) features may be used.

#### Prerequisites
- The hostname and port of a KDC visible to the DC/OS cluster
- Sufficient access to the KDC to create kerberos principals
- Sufficient access to the KDC to retrieve a keytab for the generated principals
- [The DC/OS Enterprise CLI](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/cli/enterprise-cli/#installing-the-dcos-enterprise-cli)
- DC/OS Superuser permissions

#### Configure Kerberos Authentication

#### Create principals

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service requires a Kerberos principal for each broker to be deployed. Each principal must be of the form
```
<service-primary>/kafka-Y-broker.<service-subdomain>.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@<service-realm>
```
with:
- service-primary = service.security.kerberos.primary
- Y = 0 up to kafka.brokers.count - 1
- service-subdomain = service.name with all `/`'s removed
- service-realm = service.security.kerberos.realm

For example, if installing with these options:
```
{
    "service": {
        "name": "a/good/example",
        "kerberos": {
            "primary": "example",
            "realm": "EXAMPLE"
        }
    },
    "kafka": {
        "brokers": {
            "count": 3
        }
    }
}
```
then the principals to create would be:
```
example/kafka-0-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
example/kafka-1-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
example/kafka-2-broker.agoodexample.autoip.dcos.thisdcos.directory@EXAMPLE
```

#### Place Service Keytab in DC/OS Secret Store

The DC/OS Apache Kafka service uses a keytab containing all broker principals (service keytab) to simplify orchestration. After creating the principals above, generate the service keytab making sure to include all the broker principals. This will be stored as a secret in the DC/OS Secret Store.

*Note*: DC/OS 1.10 does not support directly adding binary secrets to the secret store, only text files are supported. Instead, first base64 encode the file, and save it to the secret store as `/desired/path/__base_64__secret_name`. The DC/OS security modules will handle decoding the file when it is used by the service. More details [here](https://docs.mesosphere.com/services/ops-guide/overview/#binary-secrets).

The service keytab should be stored at `service/path/service.keytab` (as noted above for 1.10, it would be `__base_64__service.keytab`), where `service/path` matches the path of the service. For example, if installing with the options
```
{
    "service": {
        "name": "a/good/example"
    }
}
```
then the service keytab should be stored at `a/good/service.keytab`.

Documentation for adding a file to the secret store can be found [here](https://docs.mesosphere.com/latest/security/ent/secrets/create-secrets/#creating-secrets-from-a-file-via-the-dcos-enterprise-cli).

*Note*: Secrets access is controlled by [DC/OS Spaces](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.10/security/ent/#spaces-for-secrets). Technically, any secret path "above" that of the service will be accessible by the service. Matching the two paths is, however, the most secure option. Additionally `service.keytab` is a convention and not a requirement.


#### Install the service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service will the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "kerberos": {
            "enabled": true,
            "enabled_for_zookeeper": <true|false default false>
            "kdc": {
                "hostname": "<kdc host>",
                "port": <kdc port>
            },
            "primary": "<default kafka>",
            "realm": "<realm>",
            "keytab_secret": "<path to keytab>",
            "debug": <true|false default false>
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: If `service.kerberos.enabled_for_zookeeper` is set to true, then the additional setting
```
{
    "kafka": {
        "kafka_zookeeper_uri": <list of zookeeper hosts>
    }
}
```
`kafka.kafka_zookeeper_uri` must be configured to point at a Kerberized Apache ZooKeeper. The DC/OS Apache Zookeeper service is intended for this purpose and supports Kerberos.

*Note*: It is possible to enable Kerberos after initial installation but the service may be unavailable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.


### SSL Auth

SSL Auth requires that all clients be they brokers, producers, or consumers present a valid TLS Certificate from which their identity can be derived. DC/OS Apache Kafka uses the `CN` of the TLS certificate as the principal for a given client. For example, the certificate `CN=bob@example.com,OU=,O=Example,L=London,ST=London,C=GB` will be considered as the principal `bob@example.com`.

#### Prerequisites
- Competion of the section [Transport Encryption](#transport-encryption) above

#### Install the Service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service with the following options alongside your own:
```
{
    "service": {
        "service_account": "<service-account>",
        "service_account_secret": "<secret path>"
        "security": {
            "transport_encryption": {
                "enabled": true
            },
            "ssl_authentication": {
                "enabled": true
            }
        }
    }
}
```

*Note*: It is possible to enable SSL Auth after initial installation, but the service may be unavailable during the transition. Additionally, your Kafka clients will need to be reconfigured.

#### Authenticating a Client

To authenticate a client to DC/OS Apache Kafka, you will need to configure it to use a TLS certificate signed by the DC/OS CA. After generating a certificate signing request, you can issue it to the DC/OS CA by calling the API `<dcos-cluster>/ca/api/v2/sign`. Using `cURL` the request would look like:
```
curl -X POST \
-H "Authorization: token=$(dcos config show core.dcos_acs_token)" \
<dcos-cluster>/ca/api/v2/sign \
-d '{"certificate_request": "<json-encoded-value-of-request.csr>"}'
```

The response will contain a signed public certificate. Full details on the DC/OS CA API can be found [here](https://docs.mesosphere.com/latest/security/ent/tls-ssl/ca-api/).

## Authorization

The DC/OS Apache Kafka Service supports Kafka's ACL based authorization (authz) system. To use Kafka's authz, either SSL Auth or Kerberos must be enabled as detailed above.

### Enable Authorization

#### Prerequisites
- Completion of either [Recovery Plan](#ssl-auth) or [Kerberos](#kerberos-authn) above.

#### Install the Service

Install the DC/OS Apache Kafka service with the following options alongside your own (remember, either SSL Auth or Kerberos _must_ be enabled):
```
{
    "service": {
        "security": {
            "authorization": {
                "enabled": true,
                "super_users": "<list of super users>",
                "allow_everyone_if_no_acl_found": <true|false default false>
            }
        }
    }
}
```

`service.security.authorization.super_users` should be set to a semi-colon delimited list of principals to treat as super users (all permissions). The format of the list is `User:<user1>;User:<user2>;...`. Using Kerberos authentication, the "user" value is the Kerberos primary, and for SSL Auth the "user" value is the `CN` of the certificate.
